Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2023-11-06T06:00:30+09:00

====== SD Access ======
Created Monday 06 November 2023

Control plane node - LISP Mapping Server (MS)
	used for control plane functions like figuring out where something is inside the network
Fabric border node - connecting the fabric to another Layer 3 network like the internet or the WAN
Fabric edge node - connecting endpoints to the fabric and registering then with the control plane node
Fabric WLAN controller - connects APs and endpoints to the fabric

Why does control plane node need to know where everyone is if its doing control plane stuff
	In conventional campus networks, control plane traffic includes routing protocols and STP
	NOT hosts
	Is it for path traces?

How do WLCs interract with the network vs. conventional campus
	Control Plane remains centralized, but now the WAPs are empowered to create their own CAPWAP over VXLAN tunnels to forward data plane traffic
	In conventional campus, WAPs would have two CAPWAP tunnels, one for data, one for control, going to the controller
	
Scalable Groups and SG Tags (SGTs) - similar devices will have be in the same scalable group.
	Devices that are configured to have similar policies will be placed in the same group
	When those devices want to communicate over the SDA fabric, their VXLAN traffic will include an SGT tag
	The SGT tag corresponds to their group, allowing for Scalable Group ACLs and policies which are enforced based on the SGT

SD Access Planes
1. Management Plane
	a. DNA Center GUI
		1. Design
		2. Policy
		3. Provision
		4. Assurance
2. Controller Layer
	a. DNA Center (opaque to administrator)
		1. Network Control Platform
		2. Network Data Platform
	b. ISE
3. Network Layer
	a. Overlay
		1. Control Plane
			a. Control Plane Nodes (LISP)
		2. Data Plane
			a. Fabric Border 
			b. Fabric Edge
			c. Fabric WLC
			d. Fabric AP
	b. Underlay
		1. OSPF
		2. ISIS
		3. Routed Access
4. Physical Layer

